# Priority Queue Data Structure in C++

A priority queue is a container that provides an efficient way to store elements with associated priorities. Elements are inserted into the priority queue based on their priorities, and the highest priority element can be accessed and removed first.

In C++, you can implement a priority queue using the `priority_queue` container from the C++ Standard Library, which provides a convenient interface and encapsulates the necessary functionality.

## Operations of a Priority Queue

The common operations performed on a priority queue are:

1. **Push** (Insertion): Adds an element to the priority queue based on its priority.
2. **Pop** (Deletion): Removes the highest priority element from the priority queue.
3. **Top**: Retrieves the highest priority element from the priority queue without removing it.
4. **Empty**: Checks if the priority queue is empty.
5. **Size**: Returns the number of elements in the priority queue.

By default, the elements in a priority queue are sorted in non-ascending order, with the highest priority element at the top. The sorting order can be customized using a comparison function or a custom data structure.

## Example Usage

Here's an example that demonstrates the usage of a priority queue (Max Heap) in C++:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <queue>
using namespace std;

int main() {
    // Create an empty priority queue of integers
    priority_queue<int> myPriorityQueue;

    // Push elements
    myPriorityQueue.push(30);
    myPriorityQueue.push(10);
    myPriorityQueue.push(20);

    // Print the top element
    cout << "Top element: " << myPriorityQueue.top() << endl;

    // Pop an element
    myPriorityQueue.pop();

    // Print the size of the priority queue
    cout << "Size: " << myPriorityQueue.size() << endl;

    // Check if the priority queue is empty
    if (myPriorityQueue.empty()) {
        cout << "Priority queue is empty" << endl;
    }
}
```

```
Top element: 30
Size: 2
```

# Time Complexity of Priority Queue Operations

- **Push/Insertion**: O(log n)
- **Pop/Extraction of the highest priority element**: O(log n)
- **Top/Accessing the highest priority element**: O(1)
- **Empty/Checking if the priority queue is empty**: O(1)
- **Size/Getting the number of elements in the priority queue**: O(1)

Here, "n" represents the number of elements in the priority queue.

The push and pop operations have a logarithmic time complexity of O(log n) because they involve adjusting the heap structure to maintain the heap property


